# ECS0009: Minimize boxing and unboxing

This rule is described in detail in [Effective C#: 50 Specific Ways to Improve your C#](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/effective-c-50/9780134579290/).

## Cause

Value types can be converted to `System.Object` or any interface reference. Those conversions may happen implicitly, complicating the task of finding them. The boxing and unboxing operations make copies where you might not expect. That causes bugs.Boxing and unboxing operations can degrade performance and cause subtle bugs through those copies. These operations occur when a value type is converted to a reference type and vice versa. Be on the lookout for any constructs that convert value types to either `System.Object` or interface types: placing values in collections, calling methods defined in `System.Object`, and casts to `System.Object`.

## Rule description

This rule detects scenarios where boxing and unboxing occur implicitly or explicitly. It aims to help developers identify and minimize these operations to improve performance and avoid potential issues.

## How to fix violations

To fix violations, consider using generics, value type collections, or other means to avoid converting value types to reference types.

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress warnings if boxing or unboxing is necessary and there is no performance-critical impact, or if the code is optimized for readability and maintainability rather than performance.

## Example of a violation

### Description

Assigning a value type to a reference type or passing a value type to a method that expects a reference type causes boxing.

### Code

```csharp
int i = 5;
object o = i; // boxing
```

Boxing may also occur in compiler-generated code implicitly.

```csharp
var attendees = new List<Person>();
var p = new Person { Name = "Old Name" };
attendees.Add(p);

// Try to change the name
var p2 = attendees[0];
p2.Name = "New Name"; // Boxing occurs here

// Writes "Old Name":
Console.WriteLine(attendees[0].ToString());
```

## Example of how to fix

### Description

Use collections or methods that avoid boxing and unboxing operations.

### Code

```csharp
int i = 5;
int j = i; // No boxing
```

For the `Person` value type, create an immutable value type.

```csharp
public struct Person
{
    public string Name { get; }

    public Person(string name) => Name = name;

    public override string ToString() => Name;
}
```